This plugin is built to retrieve data of the currently mounted partition (or the content of /etc/fstab) and check each of the disks separately. 
The following features are available:
* Define Warning and Critical Levels for each disk separately
* Detection if a disk has not been mounted (e.g. after a restart and someone forgot to add it to /etc/fstab)
* different pulling methods for list retrieval (NRPE, SNMP)

=== Prerequisites
* NRPE must have been built with the --enable-arguments flag (the standard distros already have that done for you)
* you need check_multi (http://www.my-plugin.de/wiki/projects/check_multi/start ) installed in your plugin directory
* dont_blame_nrpe = 1 has to be set in nrpe.cfg
* of course you need ruby installed on your Nagios machine
* Optional you can install the snmp gem via "gem install snmp"

=== How to use it
* Step 1:
Edit nrpe.cfg and add the following lines at the bottom:
	# this is used to retrieve the actual data
	command[check_disk]=/usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_disk -w $ARG1$ -c $ARG2$ -p $ARG3$
	# get a list of disks which are currently mounted
	command[check_fstab]=echo `df -PTlk -x smbfs -x tmpfs -x cifs -x iso9660 -x nfsv4 | sed 1d | awk '{ printf " %s |", $NF}'`
or add this line:
	command[check_alldisks]=/usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_disk -w $ARG1$ -c $ARG2$ -e -E `cat /etc/fstab | egrep -v "^#|^$|noauto|tmpfs|    sysfs|devpts|proc|swap|iso9660|cifs|nfs" | awk '{printf "-p %s ", $2}'`

Of course you can have both of them if you are not sure. The first one will give the plugin a list of currently mounted disks. This is usually the better choice as it will make use of the missing disks feature. 

* Step 2:
copy check_fstab into your nagios-plugins directory (for example on debian this would /usr/lib/nagios/plugins ).

* Step 3:
Edit check_fstab's configuration section to suit your needs. Especially the default values for warning and critical and the paths for the cache. Also create those directories and chown them to the nagios user:
	mkdir -p /var/local/check_fstab/cache
	mkdir /var/local/check_fstab/config
	chown -R nagios:nagios /var/local/check_fstab

* Step 4:
define a command and add a service in your Nagios Configuration:
	define command {
	     command_name       check_fstab
	     command_line       $USER1$/check_fstab -H $HOSTADDRESS$ -w $ARG1$ -c $ARG2$
	}

	define service {
	    use                      default-service-template
	    host_name                *
	    service_description      Disks
	    check_command            check_fstab
	}

If everything went well you should see the first results in Nagios.


=== defining different values for disks
Go into the cache directory and open the $HOSTADDRESS$_disks.yaml file with your editor. Edit the Warning and Critical levels and set the "changes: false" to "changes: true"
check_fstab will recreate the necessary files on the next run.
